# CLOUD-BASED-E-LEARNING-PLATFORM
Cloud computing is becoming an adoptable technology for many of the organizations with its dynamic scalability and usage of virtualized resources as a service through the Internet. Cloud computing is growing rapidly, with applications in almost any area, including education. Now a day, e-learning is also becoming very popular and powerful trend, which is also broad. E-learning systems usually require many hardware and software resources. This project presents the benefits of using cloud computing for e-learning. There are many educational institutions that cannot afford such investments, and cloud computing is the best solution, especially in the universities where the use of computers are more intensive and what can be done to increase the benefits of common applications for students and teachers. In this project we are going to deploy a E-learning Portal using WordPress through Amazon Web Services (AWS).The project mainly consists Amazon Cloud Services. The main aim of this projects is to provide E-learning Courses. Technologies used – Amazon RDS, Amazon SNS, Amazon Route53, Amazon S3, Amazon VPC, Amazon LightSail, IAM, Amazon Lex, WordPress.

In this final project, we have created a highly available (HA), scalable and fault-tolerant deployment of the WordPress application. We deployed the WordPress application in such a way that the application server, load balancer and database will scale independently of one another. We also deploy the application's components like the webserver and database into two availability zones to distribute it and guard against failure of the anyone availability zone. The WordPress application will be deployed in a stateless fashion so that we can add or remove web application servers in response to the requests flowing into the system. Finally, we create a CloudFront distribution as CDN and change the configuration of WordPress.
